README.md, before:

Your [project](https://vikramsinghmtl.github.io/420-4W6-Web-Programming-II/project/specifications) proposal will go here. Since you have to write your proposal in markdown, I've provided the sample proposal below so you have a reference for the syntax. Don't worry about getting rid of my stuff below since there's the live [sample proposal](https://vikramsinghmtl.github.io/420-4W6-Web-Programming-II/project/example-proposal) copy on the notes website.

---

![Banner](images/collab.png)

Introducing "VideoGameTracker" – a platform for gamers to keep track of their favorite video games. Rate the latest games you've played, curate a wishlist and see daily rankings of the most popular video games on the marke! This app is for:

-   New gamers who want to discover new games 
-   Experienced gamers who wish to organize their video game ratings
-   All who wish to meet other gamers and make friends!

Discover new video games, leave ratings and meet new gamer friends with VideoGameTracker!

## 🧱 Core Functionality

-   **Video Game Searching:** Users can search up their favorite game and see it pop up on the screen along with info about it
-   **Video Game Rating:** Users can leave star ratings on video games they enjoyed (or didn't!)
-   **Video Game Rating:** Users can "like" other user's ratings
-   **Daily Video Game Ranking:** Users can see a daily ranking of the most highly-rated video games!
-   **Wishlist:** Users can add a video game to their wishlist to access it anytime

### Requirements

#### Rating Stories

-   As a user, I want to be able to visit a game's page and see an option to leave a review
-   As a user, I want to give a rating out of 5 stars in my review
-   As a user, I want to give a text review in my review

#### Project Stories

-   As a user, I want to create a new project so I can organize a set of related tasks.
-   As a user, I want to join a project using an invite code so I can collaborate with others.
-   As a user, I want to view all projects I'm part of to easily switch between them.

#### User Management Stories

-   As a user, I want to register for an account so I can start using the app.
-   As a user, I want to log in to my account to access my tasks and projects.
-   As a user, I want to log out of my account to securely end my session.

#### Comment Stories

-   As a user, I want to leave a comment on a task to ask for clarification or provide an update.
-   As a user, I want to see comments from other team members on a task to stay on the same page.
-   As a user, I want to be notified if there's a new comment on a task I'm involved with.

#### Status Stories

-   As a user, I want to mark a task as "In Progress" to signal that I'm actively working on it.
-   As a user, I want to mark a task as "Blocked" to indicate that I can't proceed due to a dependency.
-   As a user, I want to view tasks grouped by their status to get a quick overview of the project's health.

## ᛦ Entity Relationships

>[!note]
> If you view the source code for this README file, you'll see the Mermaid syntax that generated the following diagram. You can copy the code into the [live Mermaid editor](https://mermaid.live) to play around and make changes specific to your app.

```mermaid
erDiagram
    VIDEO_GAME ||--o{ REVIEW : has
    USER |o--o{ REVIEW : "leaves"
    USER |o--o{ WISHLIST : "has"
    VIDEO_GAME |o--o{ WISHLIST : "is on"
    VIDEO_GAME |o--o{ TAG : "has"

    REVIEW {
        int id PK
        int stars
        int likes
        string text
        int user_id FK 
        int videogame_id FK 
    }


    VIDEO_GAME {
        int id PK
        string title
        string description
        string developer
        date released_at
        int total_stars
    }

    USER {
        int id PK
        string email
        string username
        date created_at
        date edited_at
    }

    WISHLIST {
        int user_id FK 
        int videogame_id FK
    }

    TAG {
        int id
        string description
        int videogame_id FK
    }
```

-   **Authentication System:** Handling user registration, login, logout, and session management.
-   **Project Management:** Logic for project creation, joining projects, and CRUD operations on projects.
-   **Task Management:** Logic for task creation, assignment, updates, filtering, and notifications.
-   **UI Elements:** Design of forms, task lists, project overview, notification lists.

## 📍 API Routes

>[!note]
> These are only a few routes to give you an idea, these would definitely not be all the routes for this kind of app!

### Project Management

| Request              | Action                           | Response              | Description                                                             |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| POST /projects       | ProjectController::createProject | 201 /projects/:id     | Create a new project and redirect to the project's view                 |
| GET /projects/:id    | ProjectController::getProject    | 200 ProjectDetailView | Retrieve details of a specific project                                  |
| PUT /projects/:id    | ProjectController::updateProject | 200 ProjectDetailView | Update an existing project's information                                |
| DELETE /projects/:id | ProjectController::deleteProject | 204 (No Content)      | Delete a project (consider implications – should tasks be deleted too?) |

### Task Management

| Request                                   | Action                     | Response                 | Description                        |
| ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| POST /projects/:projectId/tasks           | TaskController::createTask | 201 /projects/:projectId | Create a new task within a project |
| GET /projects/:projectId/tasks/:taskId    | TaskController::getTask    | 200 TaskDetailView       | Retrieve a specific task's details |
| PUT /projects/:projectId/tasks/:taskId    | TaskController::updateTask | 200 TaskDetailView       | Edit an existing task              |
| DELETE /projects/:projectId/tasks/:taskId | TaskController::deleteTask | 204 (No Content)         | Delete a task                      |

## 📐 Wireframes

>[!note]
> Don't go crazy detailed with the wireframes! These should be minimal sketches to convey to the customer what the app will roughly look like. These things tend to change over time as requirements evolve, but you need to start from somewhere.

![Login View](images/login-view.png)

The login view is the initial screen where users can enter their credentials to log into their account. It typically consists of a form with input fields for the username/email and password, along with a "Login" button. The login view should also include a link to the registration page for new users who don't have an account yet.

![List View](images/list-view.png)

All the tasks for the logged in user where they can sort by title, due date, and created date. They can also filter tasks to only see completed or uncompleted tasks. The user can check off tasks here, or if they want a more detailed view, can click on one of the tasks (see next view).

![Show View](images/show-view.png)

This view shows the user more details for one specific task. If a due date was set, it will tell them how many days from now the task is due. There is a description field to provide more context for the task, as well as task actions to mark the task as complete, edit the task, or delete. On the right we have a sub-task list so that the user can breakdown the task steps even further. The sub-tasks can be checked off when completed.

![Profile View](images/profile-view.png)

The user profile shows the user's profile picture if set, and gives them a place where they can update their email and password. Here is also where they can control if the site is displayed in light or dark mode depending on the value of the toggle switch.

Commit message:

Added a different image and video game page stories

README.md, after:

Your [project](https://vikramsinghmtl.github.io/420-4W6-Web-Programming-II/project/specifications) proposal will go here. Since you have to write your proposal in markdown, I've provided the sample proposal below so you have a reference for the syntax. Don't worry about getting rid of my stuff below since there's the live [sample proposal](https://vikramsinghmtl.github.io/420-4W6-Web-Programming-II/project/example-proposal) copy on the notes website.

---

![Banner](images/proposalCovrt.webp)

Introducing "VideoGameTracker" – a platform for gamers to keep track of their favorite video games. Rate the latest games you've played, curate a wishlist and see daily rankings of the most popular video games on the marke! This app is for:

-   New gamers who want to discover new games 
-   Experienced gamers who wish to organize their video game ratings
-   All who wish to meet other gamers and make friends!

Discover new video games, leave ratings and meet new gamer friends with VideoGameTracker!

## 🧱 Core Functionality

-   **Video Game Searching:** Users can search up their favorite game and see it pop up on the screen along with info about it
-   **Video Game Rating:** Users can leave star ratings and reviews on video games they enjoyed (or didn't!)
-   **Video Game Rating:** Users can "like" other user's ratings
-   **Daily Video Game Ranking:** Users can see a daily ranking of the most highly-rated video games!
-   **Latest Video Games:** Users can see the most newly released video games on the market
-   **Wishlist:** Users can add a video game to their wishlist to access it anytime

### Requirements

#### Review Stories

-   As a user, I want to be able to visit a game's page and see an option to leave a review
-   As a user, I want to give a rating out of 5 stars in my review
-   As a user, I want to give a text review in my review

#### Video Game Page Stories

-   As a user, I want to visit a video game's page and see info about it (release date, developer)
-   As a user, I want to visit a video game's page and view its ratings
-   As a user, I want to visit a video game's page and view its tags
-   As a user, I want to visit a video game's page and view its popularity ranking

#### User Management Stories

-   As a user, I want to register for an account so I can start using the app.
-   As a user, I want to log in to my account to access my tasks and projects.
-   As a user, I want to log out of my account to securely end my session.

#### Comment Stories

-   As a user, I want to leave a comment on a task to ask for clarification or provide an update.
-   As a user, I want to see comments from other team members on a task to stay on the same page.
-   As a user, I want to be notified if there's a new comment on a task I'm involved with.

#### Status Stories

-   As a user, I want to mark a task as "In Progress" to signal that I'm actively working on it.
-   As a user, I want to mark a task as "Blocked" to indicate that I can't proceed due to a dependency.
-   As a user, I want to view tasks grouped by their status to get a quick overview of the project's health.

## ᛦ Entity Relationships

>[!note]
> If you view the source code for this README file, you'll see the Mermaid syntax that generated the following diagram. You can copy the code into the [live Mermaid editor](https://mermaid.live) to play around and make changes specific to your app.

```mermaid
erDiagram
    VIDEO_GAME ||--o{ REVIEW : has
    USER |o--o{ REVIEW : "leaves"
    USER |o--o{ WISHLIST : "has"
    VIDEO_GAME |o--o{ WISHLIST : "is on"
    VIDEO_GAME |o--o{ TAG : "has"

    REVIEW {
        int id PK
        int stars
        int likes
        string text
        int user_id FK 
        int videogame_id FK 
    }


    VIDEO_GAME {
        int id PK
        string title
        string description
        string developer
        date released_at
        int total_stars
    }

    USER {
        int id PK
        string email
        string username
        date created_at
        date edited_at
    }

    WISHLIST {
        int user_id FK 
        int videogame_id FK
    }

    TAG {
        int id
        string description
        int videogame_id FK
    }
```

-   **Authentication System:** Handling user registration, login, logout, and session management.
-   **Project Management:** Logic for project creation, joining projects, and CRUD operations on projects.
-   **Task Management:** Logic for task creation, assignment, updates, filtering, and notifications.
-   **UI Elements:** Design of forms, task lists, project overview, notification lists.

## 📍 API Routes

>[!note]
> These are only a few routes to give you an idea, these would definitely not be all the routes for this kind of app!

### Project Management

| Request              | Action                           | Response              | Description                                                             |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| POST /projects       | ProjectController::createProject | 201 /projects/:id     | Create a new project and redirect to the project's view                 |
| GET /projects/:id    | ProjectController::getProject    | 200 ProjectDetailView | Retrieve details of a specific project                                  |
| PUT /projects/:id    | ProjectController::updateProject | 200 ProjectDetailView | Update an existing project's information                                |
| DELETE /projects/:id | ProjectController::deleteProject | 204 (No Content)      | Delete a project (consider implications – should tasks be deleted too?) |

### Task Management

| Request                                   | Action                     | Response                 | Description                        |
| ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| POST /projects/:projectId/tasks           | TaskController::createTask | 201 /projects/:projectId | Create a new task within a project |
| GET /projects/:projectId/tasks/:taskId    | TaskController::getTask    | 200 TaskDetailView       | Retrieve a specific task's details |
| PUT /projects/:projectId/tasks/:taskId    | TaskController::updateTask | 200 TaskDetailView       | Edit an existing task              |
| DELETE /projects/:projectId/tasks/:taskId | TaskController::deleteTask | 204 (No Content)         | Delete a task                      |

## 📐 Wireframes

>[!note]
> Don't go crazy detailed with the wireframes! These should be minimal sketches to convey to the customer what the app will roughly look like. These things tend to change over time as requirements evolve, but you need to start from somewhere.

![Login View](images/login-view.png)

The login view is the initial screen where users can enter their credentials to log into their account. It typically consists of a form with input fields for the username/email and password, along with a "Login" button. The login view should also include a link to the registration page for new users who don't have an account yet.

![List View](images/list-view.png)

All the tasks for the logged in user where they can sort by title, due date, and created date. They can also filter tasks to only see completed or uncompleted tasks. The user can check off tasks here, or if they want a more detailed view, can click on one of the tasks (see next view).

![Show View](images/show-view.png)

This view shows the user more details for one specific task. If a due date was set, it will tell them how many days from now the task is due. There is a description field to provide more context for the task, as well as task actions to mark the task as complete, edit the task, or delete. On the right we have a sub-task list so that the user can breakdown the task steps even further. The sub-tasks can be checked off when completed.

![Profile View](images/profile-view.png)

The user profile shows the user's profile picture if set, and gives them a place where they can update their email and password. Here is also where they can control if the site is displayed in light or dark mode depending on the value of the toggle switch.
